[AI Tools] - Create and update concept guides (#5408)
ovh/docs: pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/deploy_guide_09_concepts_apps/guide.en-gb.md

---
title: AI Deploy - App concept
excerpt: Learn the concept behind AI Deploy apps
updated: 2023-11-20
---

## Definition

An **app** in **AI Deploy** is the workload unit submitted to the cluster. An **app** runs as a Docker container within OVHcloud infrastructure.

> Each AI Deploy app is linked to a **Public Cloud** project and specifies an amount of resources to use to run the inference task along with a Docker image either publicly available, in the **AI Deploy** shared registry scoped to your project or the private registry of your choosing that you added. For the latter, see the [OVHcloud documentation on how to add use and manage registries](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/gi_07_manage_registry).

Author: ```suggestion
Each AI Deploy app is linked to a **Public Cloud** project and specifies an amount of resources to use to run the inference task along with a Docker image either publicly available, in the **AI Deploy** shared registry scoped to your project or the private registry of your choosing that you added. For the latter, see the [OVHcloud documentation on how to add, use and manage registries](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/gi_07_manage_registry).
```

## Considerations

> [!warning]
>
> An app will run indefinitely until manual interruption.
>

> - [Data](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/gi_02_concepts_data) can be attached to a app to serve either/both as input (e.g. model weights).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Data](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/gi_02_concepts_data) can be attached to an app to serve either/both as input (e.g. model weights).
```

> - [Data](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/gi_02_concepts_data) can be attached to a app to serve either/both as input (e.g. model weights).

Author: ```suggestion
- [Data](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/gi_02_concepts_data) can be attached to an app to serve as input (e.g. model weights).
```

> - If you do not customize your resource request, the default requested is 1 GPU. Memory is not customizable.

Reviewer: Maybe precise that this is a V100S since we begin to have several models

> - If you do not customize your resource request, the default requested is 1 GPU. Memory is not customizable.

Author: ```suggestion
- If you do not customize your resource request, the default requested is 1 GPU (Tesla V100S). Memory is not customizable.
```

- [Scaling](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/deploy_guide_04_scaling_strategies) for applications depends on the chosen configuration. It can be **static** or **automatic**, and is based on a trigger threshold according to the metric chosen by the user.
- [Billing](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/deploy_guide_06_billing_concept) for **apps** is minute-based and applies during the `SCALING` and `RUNNING` states of the application. Each commenced minute is billed completely.
- You can read further on app limitations [here](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/deploy_guide_01_capabilities).

## Under the hood

**Apps** in **AI Deploy** are Docker containers within OVHcloud infrastructure.

## App lifecycle

> During its lifetime the app will transit between the following states:

Author: ```suggestion
During its lifetime, the app will transit between the following states:
```

>

- `QUEUED`: the app deployment request is about to be processed
- `INITIALIZING`: the app is being started and, if any, the remote data is synchronized
- `RUNNING`: the app is running, you can connect to it, compute resources (GPUs/CPUs) are allocated to your specific app and an HTTP endpoint is available
- `SCALING`: the app deployment is scaling up or down, depending of the scaling configuration. While scaling, the app is still available if it was running before
- `STOPPING`: the app is stopping, your compute resources are freed and ephemeral data is deleted
- `STOPPED`: the app ended normally and you can restart it whenever you want or delete it
- `FAILED`: the app ended in error, e.g. the Docker image is invalid (unreachable, built with linux/arm, ...)
- `ERROR`: the app ended due to a backend error (issue on OVHcloud side)
- `DELETING`: the app is being removed
- `DELETED`: the app is fully deleted

![image](images/apps_concept.svg){.thumbnail}

## Going further

-   You can check the [OVHcloud documentation on how to create a data container](/pages/storage_and_backup/object_storage/pcs_create_container).

> -   You can check the [OVHcloud documentation on how to submit a app](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/deploy_guide_02_getting_started)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   You can check the [OVHcloud documentation on how to submit an app](/pages/public_cloud/ai_machine_learning/deploy_guide_02_getting_started)
```
